So if you've been looking at other plays in this playbook,
you may have noticed that a lot of the methods we have created declare
the JMS exception as part of the throws declaration.
There are a large number of methods within the JMS API
that throw this pretty-generic exception.
Over the years,
there has been a more generic trend within Java to throw more
unchecked exceptions rather than checked exceptions.
This is pretty obvious in things like the Spring Framework
and other libraries available in Java.
The JMS API has been around for a long time and has its roots in the days
when checked exceptions were considered best practice.
Unfortunately, this leads to a proliferation of tricatch blocks,
and having to add the throws declaration to a lot of methods.
It's just something you're going to have to deal
with if you're going to use JMS, but it is a bit of a pain.
For the most part, I continue to pass the exception up the change,
but there are examples where you have to catch and deal with the exception,
typically in cases where you're closing off resources,
etc.
There is one particular use case I want to demonstrate.
If you lose connection to the message broker for some reason,
then in a highly-available system,
you don't want to have to restart your application to reestablish a connection.
On the JMSConnection Interface,
there is a method where you can add an instance of an ExceptionListener.
This can be useful for trying to reestablish a connection.
The JMS API says that a JMS provider should attempt to resolve connection
problems itself before it notifies the client of them.
So hopefully, it can deal with a connection issue for you,
but just in case,
I've added a piece of logic into my implementation of an ExceptionListener.
Basically it's a while loop that closes all JMS resources
associated with a current application,
and that attempts to create a new connection.
If the connection is established, then we start our application again,
and consume or produce messages.
If, however, the connection could not be reestablished,
then a JMS exception will again be thrown,
and we pause for 2 seconds and try again.
Let's see this in action.
I'll run the application, and we can see it processed 100 messages,
therefore it had a connection to the broker.
If I jump to the console, and shut down the broker,
and then jump back to the Application console,
then I can see after a short period of time that the
ExceptionListener was invoked,
and we are attempting to reconnected and continuing to do so.
Let's start the message broker back up again.
Now after a short period of time,
we can see that the connection has been reestablished,
and just to prove it, I'll run my messageSender application again, and we can see that the messages are consumed as they come in.